Our audience
needs to see the connection
between the scriptures
that we read and the point we’re making.
We can accomplish this
when we introduce a scripture
in a way that draws attention
to the main point
and then emphasize key words
as we read the text.
But that’s not always enough
for the audience to grasp
the application of the scripture.
Therefore, after reading the text,
it’s important to offer an explanation,
even if the scripture is familiar to the audience.
We can make the application clear by
isolating key words,
by explaining how those words
relate to our reason for reading the text,
and by not complicating
the application with irrelevant details.
To illustrate, see if you can discern
where the following speaker succeeds
and where he fails
in making scripture application clear.
Today, many churches baptize people
by sprinkling water on them.
Is this how baptisms should be done?
Let’s read how Jesus was baptized
according to Mark 1:9, 10.
Look for the answer to this question:
When Jesus was baptized,
was he sprinkled with water?
“In the course of those days,
“Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee
and was baptized in the Jordan by John.
“And immediately
on coming up out of the water,
“he saw the heavens being parted
and, like a dove,
the spirit coming down upon him.”
Another popular practice
in Christendom is infant baptism.
Wait!
The speaker just moved on to the next point.
He had a good introduction,
and he read with proper emphasis,
but he took no time to make the application.
He didn’t give the audience time to reflect
on the meaning of what they just read.
Let’s give him another chance.
“And immediately
on coming up out of the water,
“he saw the heavens being parted
and, like a dove,
the spirit coming down upon him.”
Notice that verse 10 says that Jesus
came “up out of the water.”
That means that he had been
completely immersed in the river.
So Jesus was not merely
sprinkled with water, was he?
Because Christians
try to follow Jesus’ steps closely,
wouldn’t it be reasonable
that Christian baptism
would entail complete immersion
and not mere sprinkling?
Another popular practice
in Christendom is infant baptism.
Notice that the speaker did not comment
on unrelated details of the verses he read.
For example, he didn’t elaborate
on the end of verse 10
because it didn’t contribute to the main point.
Whether you’re teaching
from the platform or in the ministry,
help your listeners to see clearly
the connection between the scripture you read
and the point you’re making.